## Dynamic MCNN Implementation

This public repository contains codes for developing optimal hybrid series or parallel MCNN models for dynamic optimization of chemical systems under noisy transient data. 

* Among all possible combinations of developing hybrid series (NLS - NLD / NLD - NLS) / parallel MCNN models proposed using both time-invariant and time-varying biases / noises
based on the availability / unavailability of system holdup measurements, only three types of MATLAB codes have been uploaded -- i) showing the formulation for 'Approach 1' using
hybrid parallel MCNN (where the data is partitioned into steady-state and dynamic zones), ii) showing the formulation of 'Approach 2' using hybrid series (NLS - NLD) MCNN, and
iii) showing the formulation for 'Approach 2' using dynamic holdup constraints.

* Though all the approaches consider the presence of a time-invariant bias with Gaussian noise in this case, the corresponding versions for handling a time-varying bias can easily
be generated by incorporating an additional constraint for the parametric noise model analogous to the corresponding steady-state MCNN formulation with respect to a random bias.

* Furthermore, for the first two types of files (codes) uploaded here, we assume that system holdup measurements (information) are not available. So the mass conservation constraints have only been applied at
steady-states in the fully data-driven approach. For the third case, when system holdup measurements are available, the corresponding constraint equations have been modified to involve holdup terms
as discussed in the paper.

* The unconstrained model here is taken as the neural network model having the same architecture as the constrained model. However, the unconstrained model can be represented by any other 
candidate architectures available in various commercial Deep Learning packages.

* Subsequent versions of this repository will include other combinations for MCNN implementation in dynamic modeling / optimization, as well as creating equivalent python notebooks for dynamic
MCNN applications that can be readily used by other users.

For more details about the respective algorithms, please refer to the following publication:

**Mukherjee, A.** & Bhattacharyya, D. "*On the Development of Steady-State and Dynamic Mass-Constrained Neural Networks Using Noisy Transient Data*". Comput. Chem. Eng. 108722 (2024).

Avaiable online at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2024.108722
